---
img: "korchagina.jpg"
name: "Elena N. Korchagina"
title: "Development of metrological assurance in the field of thermal analysis and calorimetry"
---

E.N. Korchagina was born in Leningrad in a family of geophysicists. In 1967 she entered the Leningrad Polytechnic Institute named after M.I. Kalinin (LPI) at the Faculty of Physics and Mechanics at the Department of Aero-Thermodynamics. The first place of work after graduation in 1973 was the Galurgy Research Institute, where she worked first as an engineer, then as a junior researcher and dealt with heat and mass transfer and hydrodynamics in underground leaching chambers. In 1981, at LPI, she defended her thesis for the degree of candidate of technical sciences. In 1987, she entered the competition for work at the Mendeleev All-Union Scientific Research Institute of Metrology as a senior researcher, scientific keeper of the state primary standard of combustion energy unit (GET 16-78). She has developed a number of regulatory documents (GOSTs, methods, recommendations for metrology), published more than 70 articles, developed a large set of standard certified samples for bomb and gas calorimetry, she is a long-term organizer of seminars and continuing education courses on the topic "Calorimetry of combustion and measurement of quality parameters of fuels." In 2004, she was appointed head of the laboratory of calorimetry and high-purity metrological substances. The work started in 2007 to improve the standard ended with the creation of a set of new generation reference installations and the approval of the state primary standard for units of combustion energy, specific combustion energy and volumetric combustion energy (GET 16-2010). In 2012, under her leadership, the state special standard for the amount of heat in the field of calorimetry of dissolution and reactions (GET 133-2012) was modernized, the scientist of which she was appointed and remained until 2023. In recent years, both benchmarks have undergone improvement procedures. GET 16 was modernized and approved in a new composition in 2018 with the addition of two gas calorimeters for burning low-calorie and high-calorie gases. In 2023, the laboratory completed a project to improve GET 133, which made it possible to implement the method of isothermal titration calorimetry and expand the measurement range of the primary special reference GET 133 to the field of microcalorimetry.

Currently, E.N. Korchagina is the supervisor of projects to create state standard samples of temperature and heat of melting of organic substances, to expand the list of standard samples of volumetric combustion energy and Wobbe number, to develop multiparameter standard samples of coal quality parameters.

The laboratory has been a provider of inter-laboratory comparative tests of coals, petroleum products, natural gas for more than ten years, in which more than 100 laboratories of the country and neighboring countries take part.

Under the leadership of E.N. Korchagina, the laboratory, as a coordinator, organized and successfully conducted a number of international comparisons of national standards within the framework of COOMET with the participation of China, Turkey, the Republic of Belarus, France, Germany, Romania.